
#### Part 1
She might have left the crypt at what she believed to be late at night, but for her, it felt like it had never ended and that the sunrise had never come. The light to the east did rise, but the joy and comfort that usually came with daylight did not. The heavy steps through the marshes had become her new normal, the one thing she could focus on through her foggy mind and buzzing ears. Just one more step, one foot in front of the other. There were many moments when she thought she heard people calling out to her, which got her hopes up that help was nearby, but there was nothing when she turned around to look for it. She couldn’t convince herself it was just the wind, since the only vegetation around was reeds and cattails. Worst-case scenario: something had followed her from the crypt; best case: it was just in her head., best case would be it was just in her head. But the idea that she might be hearing things wasn’t comforting either. But for her, it didn’t matter - the sound was reason enough to hurry. 

She had to go back to her focus on just getting one foot ahead of the other, if she stopped she knew that she would never get going again. As long as one patch of reeds passed her after another, she could keep going. The only thing breaking her pattern was the annoyance of getting her boots stuck in the mud over and over. It got to the point where thinking she would get out of there not be completely soaked from the knees down was an impossible idea. She had to use all of the energy she had gathered from the dirt floor in the crypt to pull herself free, but just the thought of the crypt made her mind foggy again. Her mind kept repeating what had happened in there. It was as if it couldn't make any sense of what had happened and had to repeat it to analyze every single detail, to find some proof of its truth or hope that it hadn’t all happened.

 Over time her body screamed at her for both the anger of wanting rest and the joy at how the ground became easier for each step to walk on, but it shouldn't have been easier to walk on. The area around Mosshall was just as bad as what she had just walked through. for the first time in a long time she looked up and was faced with a forest. The darkness among the pine trees felt inviting to her but she chalked it up to be only a desperate feeling, one of wanting to see something other than just waterlogged grass, maybe even the feeling of wanting to go home to the comfort of darkness. Fighting against the fog in her head to remember the map of the area, she vaguely remembered that there was only two forests, one to the east and one to the west of the marshes. With nothing else but moonlight to guide her she turned to what she believed to be south and started wandering again. Back to the aching comfort of just another step. Her body screaming back at her for continuing this and her mind screaming at her for just the thought that she had to face the wet marsh again. Her body back to its own trot but so did her mind, playing up all that had happened again. Making her face the grief and now clearly burnt in memory of them all laying there. Were they really dead? They might not even have died and she just left. Why would she do such a thing? Just leaving them like that, she should have checked them just in case they also survived. Why did she survive? What made her different? There should be no reason why she made it they didn't. But it had gone days, or had it just gone hours? Should she go back herself? Should she just find help, find a priest or just someone that could resurrect them. Yes, resurrect them, there had been stories of such things happening. Yes, find people to help her bring them back. All her thoughts blurred together until it became that same foggy state again. Just a few more steps and then there would be help and then she could come back for them.

One moment she was yet again stuck in a patch of muddy waters blinded by the rising sun, and the next, the light of day was suddenly gone, but why was it still not evening? She broke her focus on her steps and looked up and around her. The environment had changed from the empty, open fields of the marsh to gigantic mushrooms sprouting up, covering her in shade. The mushrooms were as tall as the great buildings back home. Some of the mushrooms even had a faint glow beneath their spore-covered gills.


Their great height and glow combined reminded her of home. If she had been with her people, none of this would have happened. Had it really been the right choice to leave? Was it all worth it? She had to turn her focus back to the present around her there was no point in thinking about her past since there was no way to return or undo it. 

She kept walking through the mushroom forest for a long time, savoring the moment until she was reminded time and time again that she couldn't share this with Thalis. Every time she thought about him, she could now only see that burned-in image of him on the floor. This time, it didn’t go away, and her feelings slowly began to bubble up inside her. She kept thinking there must have been something she could have done-there had to be something.No, it would be fine-she would return, she would find help and come back. She sat down at the base of one of the mushrooms, desperately trying to remember a version of Thalis that wasn’t the image from the crypt. His ember eyes, his golden-blond hair, or his smile. She couldn’t recall his smile anymore. But it had barely been a day… or had it been days?

Her stomach took the opportunity to remind her by loudly rumbling. She tried to recall when she had last eaten or even taken a break Everything was just a fog in her mind, and even after giving it serious thought, she couldn’t remember whether the buzzing in her ears had ever stopped. She rested her head against the stem and looked up to study the gills of the mushroom, She noticed that every time the wind caught the mushroom, small blue spores fell over the area covering it in a ghostly shimmer but also making the whole area smell like wet earthy dirt. The entire area pulsed with this glow, rising and fading in a perfect, breathing rhythm. Her breathing fell into the rhythm of the light and her body, overcome with exhaustion, finally let her close her eyes for a bit. 

There was no real rest for her during this break. Many times, she woke up to the buzzing in her ears grew into a loud screech, only to die down minutes later. If the exhaustion didn’t kill her, she was convinced the screeching would. A few of these screeching moments weren’t as bad as the others but but instead, there were voices speaking small conversations, pleading, screaming, and even some laughterr. It all blended together as if she were sitting in the middle of a busy bar, surrounded by constant, indistinct conversation but with the odd voice or sound breaking through. When she opened her eyes, all she could see was how the spores moved in the wind almost blindingly bright when grouping up. As a distraction she focused on their movement and swirling in the wind, finding patterns and figures. Sometimes, they were just beautiful swirls, Other times, it looked like people walking past her. They were only there for such a short moment that she could never determine their race or gender.

After one particularly bad episode of her ears screeching, she decided she had had enough. She stretched out her stiff, aching body and and shook off as much of the morning dew from her coat as possible. The moisture overnight and together with the fog that had rolled in now in the early morning had made all of the spores stick to her, which made her look like the humanoid figures she had seen during the night. When she tried to remove or scrape off any of the spores that had stuck to her, it only made it worse by smearing it out and making it stick to her clothing even more. After a few tries she gave up and scanned the area around her, with all the fog there was no real help for direction except the general direction of where she sat down. she decided that she couldn’t stay in this fog and just wait and took the chance of moving in the same direction she had faced when she sat down. The environment around her changed, with the mushrooms growing smaller with every step she took and were finally replaced by small shrubbery and willow trees. The sight of the first trees was a pure joy as she took in the new impressions around her, especially the feeling of the hanging branches moving over her shoulders. After spending most of her time on the ground or on the move it was a welcoming feeling of a soft touch. What she couldn’t enjoy was the sound of the wind through the leaves. Her hearing had completely been replaced by the buzzing and the ever returning screeching. On her walk through the forest she didn't manage to get far before having to stop and use all of her focus to not scream from the piercing pain of the screeching in her ears. The pain grew to such a degree that even walking became difficult. This returned over and over again but slowly the time in between the moments of agonizing pain got shorter until it never ended. When she realized that this was the time it wouldn't stop she had no choice but slowly keep moving. At particularly high pitches of the screeching her eyesight got worse and specks of black and white danced across her vision. Through the woods she could spot what looked like a clearing and she took aim for that, if she was gonna die here and now she would want to do it under the open sky. Hopefully, whatever god would meet her in the afterlife, she wished it would allow her to see Thalis again. Her own nagging voice kept telling her that she knew she wouldn't see him in the afterlife. He would be with Corellon waiting to be reincarnated and she would be barred from seeing him, she was sure that Corellon wouldn't take pity on her, she had after all been a follower of Lolth. She should have focused on atoning, she should have focused on thanking Elistreae more maybe then she could have earned forgiveness. Maybe then...

Getting slowly closer to the opening in the trees to the clearing she could finally see her long awaited goal, the clearing, but also, in the distance, she saw Mosshall-she had emerged at the outer edges by the river. Looking across the river there were a group of kids running around playing in the grass chasing each other. But as soon as one of them saw her, she could only guess from the look on their faces that they were screaming in fear at the sight of her. All of them grabbed at each other pushing back towards the town and running and looking back over their shoulders at her again and again. Someone outside of the town must have heard their screams since there now was a group of adults clad in a makeshift armour, clearly put on in a haste, running towards her. She had made it back. She sank down on her knees, forced to deal with another extremely high-pitched screech, this time she didn't let it stop her. It took what felt like forever to get used to her voice, cracked and weak from what she guessed was the dryness in her throat. Her voice didn’t hold up the first few tries, but finally she managed to utter, ‘HELP!" The last look she got before the pain took over both her vision and hearing was of the makeshift guard group getting closer drawing their weapons but slowing slightly after her final, successful cry for help.

---
##### Part 2
What does dying feel like? Is it cold as a stone floor or is it warm as a bed by the fire? She had always imagined dying as a greater spectacle, a lot more blood, having to watch oneself be dismembered, or something along those lines. But she had also expected to remember more of what had happened. Most deaths she had witnessed were always gory and brutal and definitely not something you would forget but she couldn’t remember anything of what had happened. Had the exhaustion finally taken her, and was this the afterlife? If that is so she hoped that the afterlife and dying were like a bed by the fire, since that was the first thing she noticed when she slowly opened her eyes. In that case the afterlife was also very quiet, where not even the raging fire in the fireplace next to her makes any noise. 

Not wanting to leave the comfort of the bed, she dragged herself up into a sitting position. The room was simple-wooden walls in a green-tinted color, a closed door, and a single window. Outside it was dark, but some light source out of sight made it clear enough to see that there was a thick fog around the house she was in. There wasn’t much else in the room either-just the bed she lay in, the fireplace, and a chair with her coat neatly folded and her weapons leaning against the wall next to it. Her eyes were drawn again to the silent fireplace. It looks normal, and with slow, painful movements, she got out of bed and held her hands up to it, confirming that it even felt normal. Thinking about it, she also remembered that the bed hadn’t even made a sound when she got out of it. 

Was everything like this now? Or was this her own personal hell? Never again would she be able to hear a story told to her or a ballad sung. She went back to the bed and sat down in defeat. She thought back again to her last memory, but what came up in her mind is not the sight of the clearing or the sound of the screeching in her ears. It was instead the memory of Thalis again, the feeling of that cold floor, Veacaans fighting rage against the spirit and the pain in Rogdans eyes. The whole scenario played out behind her eyes over and over again. How could she forget, tears welled up until they silently fell down her cheeks. Vague memories flooded her from her days spent wandering the swamp and the pain of the screeching sounds follows every memory. She spent a few moments collecting herself focusing on the idea of finding help-or at least finding some answers about where she was. Wiping away her tears and drying them on the linen gown she had been put into, she got back up and headed for the door. 

She carefully grabbed the cold iron door handle and gently pushed the door just enough to peek outside. Peeking outside, there was a lantern-lit corridor to her left and to her right, a tall human man stood as if guarding her door. His armor matched that of the guards in Mosshall, but it wasn’t as run-down as the ones the others had worn. Unlike the others, who had only carried simple weapons, he had leaned a sword against the wall beside him.Good-that meant she wasn’t dead, and there was still a chance for her to go back and get the team. She carefully looked up at him, trying to remember if she had seen him in the town before, but his short rat-brown hair and patchy beard made him blend in too well among the rest of the guards and the general look of the city’s population. He was clearly tired or distracted, as he still hadn’t noticed her, his gaze was focused on something on the floor, or he was simply lost in thought. She opened the door a bit more and gave him a gentle-but still silent, to her-knock on the metal shoulder pad. 

He clearly hadn’t been expecting anything and reacted by jumping, at what she believed to be the sound from the knocking, and grabbing his sword pulling it out half way. She swiftly backed into her new room, aiming to back toward where her weapons were stored, holding up her hands halfway into the air. But before she got very far, he had already sheathed the sword again and held up his hands. His mouth was constantly moving, but still no sound came, and his eyes darted repeatedly over his shoulder as if looking for something or someone, but what was clear was the panic in his eyes. At every look over his shoulder, she backed closer and closer to where her weapons would be along the walls. Before she reached them, the man calmed down a bit and they locked eyes with each other and he stopped, and pointed to her and then to his ears. He knows something about her hearing, could it be that she hasn't gone deaf by the screeching. She also stopped, pointed to herself and her ears, and shook her head. He nodded back at her, pointing to himself and then to the door. Now with much more calmness on his face, he took a few slow steps towards her, gently grabbed her by her upper arms and guided her to sit down on the bed again. He turned and headed back out into the corridor and gave her one last worried glance before turning his attention back to something further down the corridor. Watching his face as he turned in the doorway, she saw that he was shouting for someone but she didn’t have time to see much more before he disappeared behind the door. 

Yet again she was left alone in the room, not really knowing what to do, she just sat there, following the patterns in the wood floor while her mind again forced her to relive the crypt moments. The little energy she had mustered had left her body and again the bed felt inviting. She crawled under the cover and nervously watched the door. If there was a guard outside her door, was she a prisoner here? No, she hadn’t done anything to warrant an arrest. It must have been that they feared her for some reason, or… were protecting her from someone or something. Before long, she saw the shadows along the corridor of people approaching again. Through the door, an old gnome lady appeared, together with the guard that's holding the door open for her. The stout little lady waddled up to her bedside and looked her up and down, shook her head, making her gray braids flop around. Carefully, she took off her pointy hat, placing it on the bedside table. She placed her hands on her hips with a frown on her face, she continued by walking around the bed, clearly mumbling something to herself until she stops on the other side. She took out a small pouch and looked through it but not satisfied before going over to the other pouch and pulled out what could be described as dried blue moss. She crushed it up in her hand, and it mixed with small arcane particles. When done, the lady impatiently waved at her to lean in and doing so she rubbed in the moss mixture on her ears. For each circle the lady made with her fingers over her ears, the sound around her came back slowly. She heard the fire roaring in the fireplace, the metal armor rustling with the guard’s nervous movements, and the soft chirping of insects outside

"Sorry for that lass, i had to magically deafen ye for ye to even have a wee rest. Ye did nothing but screamed and held yer ears when the guards finally delivered ye to me. Whatever ye had been hearing, lassie, it must have been something awful. So how were ye feeling then"
The sound of the little lady's sweet voice was a shock to Elithana’s ears; after so long in silence, everything around her seemed a bit louder  
She was just about to answer but didn’t get the chance before the guard broke under the nervousness.
"Miss... I'm so sorry i pulled my weapon on you, i wasn't expecting you to suddenly in the middle of the night come knocking on my armour. You have just slept for days anyway. many of us thought you'd never wake aga..."
The lady interrupted him with a loud cough.
"Belud Nokem! ye stay silent now. ye dae not spread any rumors in ma hoose. Noo get out o' here, SHOO! i need some time with the lass here without yer interruptions."
The little lady shooed the guard out, with him just trying to explain himself but not getting a word in before she shushed him again. The lady slammed the door behind him and brushed off her hands before turning back to her. "'Noo, where were we? Ah, how was yer hearing then, lass?"
Elithana cleared her throat before she answered 2. - “It seem okay, just a bit sensitive. I also still felt a bit exhausted, but I thought some sleep would fix that. I'm guessing you have been the one taking care of me since I returned. Thank you for that - is there any way I could repay you?”
The lady just laughed at Elithana, 
"Ye didnae need to repay me anything. I was happy to help, its rare that i get to treat something else than simple cuts an bruises here so its been a privilege. So! I kent you'd probably want some more sleep, but I kent that I'd be endlessly questioned if I didnae at least get yer name and something aboot how ye ended up looking like an overgrown will-o’-wisp walking into our wee town."
Elithana recoiled and frowned at the lady when she mentioned the will-o’-wisp. She thought back to it all and just felt lost about where to start. She opened her mouth a few times, thinking she had a good point to start the story, but she couldn’t get herself to tell it.
"Lass, I could tell it was a hurtful memory, but let’s start at the easy point. I'm  Ginsna Eaglebym, whats yer name?" She bent down and, with a loud screech, dragged out a small wooden step stool and sat down firmly on it.
"Elithana Sunwalker"
"Ah! rare to meet yer kind an even rarer to meet a Sunwalker."
Elithana hopped up in bed, now giving her full attention to Ginsna.
"Have you met a Sunwalker before?"
"No, but i heard talk o' them. Had a group o' Drow show up at the outer edges o' the Swamp a few years ago, asking around for a Sunwalker that they said had gone missing some time before that. it wasn't ye by any chance?"
"Wasn't me. I haven't been with the drow for around a century now.", She sighs, "But i was here...What day is it today?"
"Thamday 10th o' Gyllip, but ye arrived here on the morning two days ago"
"I was here two weeks ago then, me and three others in my group. We refilled our supply before heading out in the swamp"
"What business did ye hev out there?"
The hesitation to keep talking was clear on Elithanas face. She stayed silent for a few seconds, thinking over how best to retell it all without Ginsna thinking she was crazy or just a grave robber.  
"We were investigating a story about a crypt at the center of the swamp. We all entered it and were met with some undead that we killed. But at the end of the crypt was a ghostly lady," Her voice break a little "We had no chance, she killed everyone in my group. I need to get back there and fetch their bodies. Is there someone in the town who can help?" 
 

Elithana’s question went unanswered; the only reaction she got from Ginsna was her staring more intensely at Elithana the more she described the place. As soon as Elithana fell silent, Ginsna hopped off the stool with such speed it toppled over, still staring back at Elithana with wide eyes. She started drawing different kinds of shapes in the air in front of her while loudly rambling in a language Elithana didn’t understand. The commotion was enough to bring the guard Belud running in again, sword drawn once more, screaming, "What's going on in here!"
Ginsna answered Belud by pointing at Elithana with a shaky hand, saying, "She's been to The Specter Tombs. No one comes back alive from there. This is no' a good sign"
Belud just stood there in awe, staring at Elithana. He lowered his sword and, with his free hand, drew the same shape in the air that Ginsna had made.  
Looking back and forth between Ginsna and Belud, Elithana, too, burst out "What is wrong with you two, what is so special about that place to you?"
Belud speaks up with a stuttering voice "Its a cursed place and no one returns from there"
"Lass what happened in there? How did ye survive the lady?"
"The lady... you knew about the ghost lady in there." Elithanas voice started out low and controlled but with time she is raising it filled with more and more anger. "you knew! We asked around everyone we could get a hold of in this town what was waiting for us out there and none of you said anything! I had to watch my friends die in there, I HAD TO WATCH MY HUSBAND DIE IN THERE" 
Belud slowly raised his sword again, now pointing it at Elithana.
"Lass, please calm down. Ye asked for help-well, ye weren’t getting any from people in this town. Am sorry for yer loss, but they were gone, an’ the lady noo had them." Ginsna turns to Belud "lad sheath ye sword before ye poke an eye out, or before ye regret picking a fight with a drow"
Elithana just sits there in pure disbelief, "why cant you help me? I just want to bury them. I just want to say farewell"
"I ken lass, i ken, but the people in this town is a bit, lets say divided. Some think that the The Specter Tombs is a cursed place an shuid no' even be talked about, that's why no one helped ye. Some believe its better to feed the lady sacrifices so that the rest o' us will be safe out there in the fields. So that she or her wisps wont be coming for us. You hev really run into the most horrible people doing this to you. It would probably be best for you to leave the town as soon as possible in the morning before people start recognising you an the word spreading where you hev been."
All Elithana can do is nod back and stare down at her hands grabbing the covers of the bed. She heard how Ginsna shoed Belud out again, giving him an earful for drawing his sword again. They closed the door after them, and she was left in the silence, which was only occasionally broken by the sound of Belud retaking his position outside her door and moving around from time to time.

---
##### Part 3
She got out of bed and looked over her gear, making sure that it was still there - her clothing, the containers filled with maps, a small box containing the ink and quill. But there was one thing among them that wasn't hers - a journal, Thalis's journal to be precise. She picked it up and moved her fingers across the rough leather surface, admiring its blue hue in the candlelight. It had small brass fittings on the corners except for one. When her fingers reached that point, she got a small smile on her face at the memory of Thalis's constant fidgeting with one of the fittings on the back and how it fell off. He always did that to all of his books. It was always funny looking at his bundle of old journals, where all of them had that same corner battered up or a slight change in color. Not even metal corners saved this one from the same fate as the others. At the bottom of the journal, she saw the small braid she had made for him. Green and golden threads in a fishbone pattern, and judging from its placement in the journal, it was almost finished up. She should start looking for a new journal for him... but she couldn't now. He was gone. Whatever little happiness that memory had brought her, it was quickly replaced with the feeling of her heart sinking back down into the pits of her stomach. One thought echoed in her head, 'What should I do with it now?' There should have been nothing in it that was important for her to read. It also felt a bit invasive reading it, even if he was gone, she felt like she needed to respect his privacy. She should get rid of it so others couldn't use it to find that awful place. She moved over to the fireplace, staring into the flames for a long time, hands gripping the journal tighter for every minute she looked at the fire. Looking back at the book, she spotted water droplets on it. She looked up towards the ceiling, thinking it was the rain leaking in, but there was nothing. She dragged her fingertips on her cheek, and looking at them, she found the source of the water. "She went back to the table and removed a small belt from the map containers, wrapped it around the journal, and neatly packed it into her backpack. She returned back to the bed, curled up into a ball, as if it would protect her now broken heart. Here she finally let all of her feelings out for the first time. Screaming and crying into the pillows until there were no more tears that would come out. 

