Elithana never thought she would they would find the final resting place of the dagger. Something they had searched for over 8 years and now they are finally here in front of the crypt. Imagine that such a powerful weapon would be stuck in an old glanced over crypt in the middle of a swamp. No wonder the locals never got to have a calm moment, the mere power from that weapon must attract countless monstrosities or hauntings. The made sure to travel during the day there since the locals warned them about what crawled out at night. They had reached the crypt at the end of the day and the sun had just started to set behind the trees to their west. 

While Veacaan was fighting to get the door loose she took the <br/>opportunity to sit down with Thalis. 
"what do you think we will find in there," she said while making herself comfortable on a rock in the less swampy area. <br/>
"We can never know for sure but if the books are correct we can at least expect some skeletons. Locals have seen them wander around the area for years. I think it could originate from this spot, the air has felt strange the closer we get, something dead and arcane in the air." 

Just as he finished his sentence Veacaan ripped off the old door to the catacombs with a loud roar, throwing it to the side. Everyone went completely quiet, nothing could be heard except for Rogdans slow sharpening of his knives. Rogdan hopped off the stone he was sitting on and neatly packed away the sharpening kit.  Unlike normally where Rogdans hands would be steady, she could see a slight shake in them. He was clearly fighting against his emotions. Looking over the others she can tell everyone seems to be a bit on edge. To see Rogdan be this much on edge was a worrying thing, he was always a calm and secure spot to be around. 

She felt how Thalis took her hand and squeezed it to get her attention and gave it a quick kiss. <br/>
"It will be fine," he said with a smile. that smile that always completely charmed her. Towards everyone else he usually had a stern look about him, as if he is always angry about something but when he turns and smiles to her she always gets the feeling of butterflies in her stomach. Thalis had made the promise that this was the last adventure they go on before they find a good city with the mages league and finally settle down together. No more muddy camping spots, or long days walking from village to village. Even the thought of always having access to a hot bath was a dream come true. They even discussed a bit if they should return to the collage they met at to become teachers. She could teach art and its history and he could teach about his own findings about necromancy magic around the world. Both of them had enough real world experience with it to be adequately qualified which made it all a much more tempting idea. 

Veacaan unsheathed his sword and took the lead into the tomb with Rogdan close behind, 'the unstoppable duo' she thought, this small crypt shouldn't be a problem for them, she had seen those two go through hoards of monsters together without even a scratch. She gave Thalis a quick worried smile before getting up from her rock and follow Veacaan and Rogdan into the tomb.

It didn't really look like what they had expected inside the crypt, it began with stone stairs leading down into a long corridor with walls made out of smooth dark stone. Along the walls there were many coffins neatly placed into sockets in the walls. Made both out of now murky wood and the same kind of dark stone as the walls. many of the dead inside them woke up by their presence but it was surprisingly easy to dispose of them again. Thalis was correct in the reports of skeletons being roaming around but they didn't expect there to even be a few wraiths commanding a small group of spectres. After every skeleton or wraith put to rest Thalis made sure to look closely at the graves and if there was any names he noted it down, even the graves where there was only a few letters on them or only dates, he made notes on it.

At the end of the corridor there was a massive decorated iron door. Text weaved around it self in a snake like pattern along the edges of its frame. The door had turned into a blotchy red stained color and where there probably once had been door handles was now only a small broken off stump. Veacaan and Rogdan started working on how to open it and see if there is any traps. Thalis walked up to the door and took notes of what the text on it said. She took a quick look at it but it was no language she understood. But the idea of her and Thalis spending the coming evenings with some good drinks and studying the text excited her. While the others were working with the door she had a look around the room. There was nothing out of the ordinary except for the now-empty graves. But when walking around the corridor she kept on thinking that she saw a blue glow in the corner of her eyes but every time she turned around to look there was nothing. And it was different spots every time, sometimes it was on the door itself and sometimes it was as if deep behind the coffins.

After some time the door lit up in a faint glow.

"What did you two do?" said Thalis.

"Absolutely nothing we were just discussing if we should melt the hinges," answered Rogdan while both him and Veacaan backed slowly away from the door. Elithana quickly joined up and stood behind Thalis and all of them together watched as the door slowly opened. They had to protect their eyes as this glow came from the room was as bright as daylight and their eyes wasn't used to after all the time in the darkness.

They all slowly entered the room that unlike the other has rough walls and what looked like natural light flowing into it. and thinking about where it came from she thought them lucky to have arrived on a full moon, without its light they would have seen nothing in here. The floor was packed dirt unlike the other rooms that had stone. At the point on the floor where the natural light shone in there was stone spikes rising up from the ground resembling almost a hand. Its fingers twisted and rigid and it forming a chair. But at one of the points sticking up from chair there was the price they had been looking for all this time. the dagger... Rakdos Riteknife. Rogdan Slowly walked up towards the chair absolutely in trance by it, reaching out his hand towards the knife. Before Thalis even gets a word out to stop Rogdan from touching it something glowing forms in the chair. A mix of blue electric sparks and glowing small orbs rapidly flying around, a figure fades in. It was a ghost, a woman with long silvery hair that was flying up in the air from the static in the air. There was no way you could see how she had died just from looking at her but her face was still showing som pain and sadness.

One after another the ghost looked around at all of the party members, pointing a finger at each one of them. And none of them in the room did anything, all they could do was stand there and watch her. All of them acted like if they did the slightest movement her finger would stop on them and target them. When she's done a final point at Elithana, the ghost raises and holds her arms out and everywhere in the room will-o' wisps faded in, 'this must have been the lights i saw' Elithana thought. There was so many in the room that it was getting difficult for Elithana to see anything because of the brightness. She looked back at the others in the party and to the ghost. They were all distracted looking at all of the will-o' wisps, following them as they danced around them. It was a beautiful sight, like watching falling stars but they never stopped falling. But what they didn't notice was the one small thread that now connected them. Rogdan connected to Veacaan that was connected to Thalis. Elithana saw the will-o' wisp with the thin thread fly out from Thalis back over to her. She tried to wave her hand towards it to get it to fly in a different path but her hands only passing through it, and leaving a burning cold feeling. Elithana shoves the hand inside her coat warming it against her body. She could do nothing more but to watch the wisp pass through her chest with a small cold sting to her heart. At that moment all other wisps faded away leaving only the blue thin thread linking them all together.

A zap went through her body and she saw how all the other also froze. All she could do was move her eyes and look around. The wisp came back but now back at the beginning of the thread at Rogdan. It just hung there in the air waiting, until the ghostly lady waved a hand to it and it started moving along the line. Passing through Rogdan but he could do nothing, not even scream, he just stood there but with the pain from the wisp still visible in his eyes. When the wisp left his body he fell down on the floor, no sign of any life. Did the wisp kill him? no that cant be, Rogdan would be ready, he is always ready for things like this, he is just passed out. From his body a smaller wisp emerged and flew over to the ghost before disappearing in a small poof of sparks.

The wisp now continued along the thread into Veacaan, but when entering him it didn't have the same effect as it had on Rogdan. When the wisp exited his body he didn't fall to the ground but instead he regained control of his body, steadied himself so he too didn't fall to to the ground. He took a deep breath and breathed out a cloud of necromantic magic at the ghost, he ended it with a few coughs. Elithana could clearly tell that the wisps effect on him was still bad as he continues in struggling breathing. And with each breath he takes it becomes more rapid and raspy, until the point of him having to get down on all four just coughing. The attack on the ghost did nothing but to anger it, she grasped the dagger, flew over to Veacaan and stabbed him in his back while he was down. Turquoise cracks appeared all over him spreading up to his neck and face, before she had removed the blade his limbs gave up and fell down on the ground. All Elithana could do was stare at Veacaan on the floor, wishing that he would get back up. This time with no wisp exited the body. With the actions from the spirit lady it all became unbearably clear for her what was about to happen. She needs to get out of here before it reached Thalis she needs to fight against it. No matter what she did she couldn't move a single limb of her body. Still frozen in a perfect position to continue watching the horrors before her. She even attempted to screams or cast spells but her lips wouldn't part, and the best result she got was a slight quivering and sweat beading on her forehead.

The ghost returned the knife to the spot where it floated before and she sat down again. She waved her hand towards the wisp on the thread and it continued towards Thalis. Elithanas eyes started filling with tears at this moment, she knew what was waiting him, and she knew she was next and there was nothing she could do. No matter how much she tried to fight against the spell that froze her, she didn't get out of it. From where Elithana was standing she couldn't see Thalis face, he too just frozen in place. She followed the small wisp along its thread with her eyes and reaching Thalis it had the same effect as it had to Rogdan, it exited his body and Thalis fell to the ground. At this point Elithana could barely see anything at all because of all the tears filling her eyes. She only saw the glow from the small wisp following the thin thread from Thalis body to her own. The small glowing ball felt like it took an eternity before reaching her, but that eternity gave her long enough to think about how at least her and Thalis will die together. How she wouldn't be able to live on without him, this was the better outcome. She turns her eyes to where Thalis now lays on the floor and thinks 'see you soon'. As the wisp entered her body and a cold gripping her heart, everything turns black and then nothing.

She woke up to the cold dirt floor pressing against her cheek. The room was now dark and no wisps or ghost anywhere to be seen. Wasn't she dead, she was certain that the cold that gripped her heart was enough to stop it. Looking around she could see in the dark was the rough shadows of others bodies. She tied to get up but her entire body was stiff and unwilling to obey her. With a painful crawl she gets over to Thalis wanting to check if he too survived but there is an extreme stench of rotting, making her having to cover her nose with her arm. She tries to not look at his face, she doesn't want to remember him or his face this state. Feeling around on the ground on her way out of the room she comes across something soft and rectangular. She remember Thalis holding his notebook in his hand as they walked into the room. He must have dropped it, she grabbs it and clutches it as she with extreme pain gets up on her feet and does a quick look over to the others thinking if she should do something for them but fearing the return of the ghost lady she decides to run, and a bit to her surprise the door out is still open. When she leaves the tomb its in the middle of the night but now there is no moon in sight. She was certain that they arrived there on a full moon, but now they skies are clear and no moon in sight anywhere. With no moon to give her some kind of bearing of where to go she does a guess and turns to the way she thinks they came form and slowly starts walking back to Mosshall.