She grabbed a firm hold of the man's hair, pulled his head back, and exposed the throat. She lifted her knife up towards his throat, about to cut it, but hesitated and stopped. It wasn't a long hesitation, but just enough to be noticeable and for the man to start pleading again for his life. The tears on his face streamed down, and all she could think of seeing a grown man in this state was how weak he was. The last thing he was about to do in life was beg and cry. Weak men like him deserved to die. And with that final thought, she swiftly swiped the knife across his throat. A last gurgle bubbled out from the man while the blood spewed out over her legs, making her push the remains away while letting go of the tuft of hair.

She turned her attention back over to the rest of her raid group. They had gathered up all of the villagers in two lines down on their knees, sorting out the men from the women and children. There was constant high pitch screaming from both the mothers and kids, it was just audible enough to pierce through the roaring sound of the burning building behind them. One man desperately threw himself at one of the Drow, pushed her away, and ran towards what presumably would be his family. He didn't get far before two other Drow had caught up with him and had him back down on his knees. One of them looked back up directly at her and asked: *'vel'bol zhah dosst quarth venta'kyorl?'* - 'What's your command, captain?' She sighed back but ended up coughing a bit as the smoky air felt like poison in her lungs. She rubbed her forehead while thinking, but looking back at her hand, she noticed that she had just smeared even more blood onto herself. She cleaned off her hands on a small rag while answering *"uk zhah natha gareth s'lat'halin ji udos ssrig'luin ukta. Jhal usstan xuat ssinssrin ulu t'zaraw xuil mzild iblith maristo. Elgg l'dalhar lu't'yin l'j'nesst"* - 'he is a strong fighter so we need him. but i don't want to deal with more humans/surface races tonight. Kill the child and then the woman'. The drow answers back with a small hand gesture and says *"Orn tlu venta'kyorl"* - 'will be captain'.  The spring into acting dragging out the woman and lifting up the child, placing them all in a triangle. They made quick work of the child by stabbing them in the heart. It didn't take long before they were gone. The mother didn't have much time to scream before they moved over to her and slit her throat. All Elithana could see from where she stood was how the woman held her hands around her neck as if that would stop the bleeding. Her eyes locked into her husbands with a look of pleading for help but eventually she fell down out of sight for Elithana. The man struggled against the rope restraints they had put on him, screaming and crying. 

The rest of the drow grew tired of him and just left him there, bound to a fence, until he calmed down. Elithana sat down by one of the buildings, observing how the rest of the people were tied into a long line, and at the end the drow added the now very defeated man. Elithana took one last look over the group and over the hillside where now the sun had started to rise. *'Lest alu delmah!'* - 'Let's go home!', she announced and stood up, taking the lead and guiding them all back to the cave entrance.