
"Elithana! Stop pacing around the room. please sit down here with me instead." Elithana kept on pacing around the room, she wasn't gonna sit down. She looked over to Thalis. "You don't get it, we are not safe here! I'm sure that she saw me, we need to leave. No that's what she expects, hmmm"
"Why would the appearance of another drow worry you so much. I cant understand if you don't explain." The world suddenly spun around as Thalis grabbed her by the shoulders and turned her towards him. "Sit and explain, I can even ward the door if that makes you feel better".
"No-no, don't waste the material on that. Just be ready in case someone enters." 
She had purposefully not said anything to Thalis about her time in the Underdark. She did not want to think back on that time at all. with a sigh, she sat down on the bed. "I don't know where to start, really."
"Start with why you are so afraid of the drow downstairs at the bar, I didn't think you would run away at the sight of your own people."
"They are not my people! I'm a Sunwalker now! I left them and that's why I fear them, there isn't many drow that manages to leave their society and the worshipping of..." she lowed her voice "the Spider Queen. Most people that try to leave get caught and end up dead on the spot or sent to a high priestess to be sacrificed to their god." 
"But how did you leave then."
"Because of Elistraee, and the memories from a slave."
"A slave? You had slaves!"
"Everyone in the Underdark has slaves, all men are seen as slaves. It's not something I had a say in really. But you are getting distracted from what matters."
Thalis sit down but keep looking towards the door as if to signal he is ready for the story
"So yes, my family has slaves but it's because I was a part of one of the noble houses. It was the house of Amakir, they specialised in the slave trade. They hired people to go up to the surface and gather possible slaves or sacrifices. But when I grew up I was extremely curious so I kept running over to the areas where the slaves weren't as guarded, there I would pester them until they told me stories of the top side. They told me about their villages and how beautiful the mountains and forests around them were. Sometimes they told me about their most memorable moments, like their weddings or the moment they met their partners. It was difficult for me to understand how so many races could live together, that no race rules the other."
"But they were your house's slaves, didn't you get caught?"
"Yes, it happened a few times. My mother screamed at me to never talk with the slaves again and to make sure that I understood what I've done I had to cut out the tongue of the slave they caught me talking to. it was just a kid..." 
Elithana sat silent for a bit lost in memories.
"It didn't stop me from talking with them. I had trouble seeing them as lives worth living, they were just entertainment to me then. So it happened over and over again. The punishments for them just got worse and worse. but in the end.... hmmm I must have been around 115 years old then. I was talking to this elf, you actually remind me of him, he told me about the wonderful festivals in the city and how they all walked with lanterns out to the forest to thank the forest for providing for them. It was at that moment I decided to leave, I wanted to see it and I wanted to be free to hear more stories like that without the risk of killing the storyteller. Problem was that I didn't have any idea how to leave. I wasn't a scout so I didn't have permission to leave, and I couldn't just walk out of there. I waited a few years to figure out a plan and one day Elistraee contacted me"
"A goddess contacted you? Why would a god talk with specifically you?" 
"You don't have to sound so condescending, Elistraee is a god that helps drow that wants to leave the Underdark,  so with the promise that I would help others, she was gonna show me the way to the surface. When I was around 120 she showed herself as a guiding light when I was helping the rangers with a new shipment of slaves. One of the slaves had gotten loose and the rangers were too distracted with trying to catch them again that they didn't notice me slip off into a small opening. It lead me through small pathways that slowly leaned upwards. what I didn't expect was that it would take me 2 days to get out. but Elistraee light showed me to water sources. sometimes I needed to hide from monsters or animals walking past. But I finally reached the surface. The wind was the first thing I reacted to, how fresh the air was and how surprisingly warm it was compared to the cold of the Underdark. It was a clear night with the moon out, typical Elistraee, the light that had guided me the past days flew into the nearby forest before I had a chance to follow it again. So since I had no idea where I started following the edge of the forest until I would find a road. Turns out I had ended up on the Continent Adrela but very close on the border to Lereon. I kept travelling until I reached the harbour city (some name) where I snook onto a boat to Lereon. Here I did some work in some bars until I got enough money to adventure a bit. I hopped from party to party, but decided that I wanted to go back to the stories I had heard of so I joined a college, and you should know the rest of the story now. The first time we met was at that college. And you were coincidentally there waiting for me every time I got back from a job."
Thalis looked over at her with a shy smile. 
"Yes I was, but this doesn't really explain your fear for the drow downstairs."
"They might be sent out to find me, to bring me back. If we can't leave tonight we have to at least warn the others in the group about her. I'll wait here until you are back."
